# TomatoCare
A Supply and Demand Forecasting Support Tool for Tomatoes Using ARIMA Modeling

## Description

This script performs the following tasks:
1. **Data Loading and Preprocessing**: Loads the time series data from the csv files, converts the 'Year' column to string type, and creates a new column combining 'Year' and 'TimePeriod'.
2. **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)**: Plots the original time series data to visualize data from 2012 to 2022.
3. **Stationarity Check**: Checks for stationarity using the Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) test and takes the logarithm of the time series data to make it stationary.
4. **Model Fitting**: Fits an ARIMA model to the training data and makes time series predictions.
5. **Evaluation**: Evaluates the model predictions using metrics such as Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE), and Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE).
6. **Future Forecast**: Makes predictions on future data and plots the forecasted values.

## Dependencies
1. Python 3.x
2. pandas
3. matplotlib
4. statsmodels
5. scikit-learn
6. numpy

You can install the required dependencies using pip:
- pip install pandas matplotlib statsmodels scikit-learn numpy

## Usage
1. Ensure that the csv files are located in the same directory as the Python scripts.
2. Run the Python scripts depending on which set of data you'd like to work with.
3. Follow the on-screen instructions to input the number of years ahead for prediction when prompted.
4. View the plots generated by the script to visualize the actual and forecasted data.
5. Review the evaluation metrics printed in the console.

